#Essay Questions
**1.A Why are you interested in programming?**  
Frank Lloyd Wright wrote, “Form follows function-that has been misunderstood. Form and function should be one, joined in a spiritual union.”  
As a graphic designer, I’m constantly balancing, experimenting with and pushing the boundaries of the relationship between form and function. Each project I take on must not only communicate a message, but it must also appeal to its audience, draw them in, excite them, challenge them, inspire them, or inform them. As modern humans, we use design to curate the objects we choose to interact with, and are constantly evolving our filter through which we rapidly determine the value of an object. Now, more than ever, form and function are essential partners and understanding their interaction is invaluable.  
I strive to comprehensively understand and utilize both form and function. Hybrid designer/developers who can set type as proficiently as they can write code are so rare, they’re labeled unicorns. I am well-versed in communicating aesthetically, but lack the skills and experience to create functioning apps, programs or sites. A thorough understanding of both form and function as it relates to programming is a powerful skill set and will allow me to create highly functional and effective designs. I want to be a unicorn.  

**1.B What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?**  
A lot of my current projects are for designed for the web. I was first exposed to HTML/CSS/Javascript through these projects, and use basic HTML/CSS in my day-to-day work.  I have a foundational understanding of the use, capacity, and limitations of HTML/CSS/Javascript. I have also studied user experience at the School of Visual Concepts and am familiar with many of the theories and practices behind UX design. Lastly, I have been pursuing an education in programming for the last few months with Codecademy.com and have taken courses in HTML/CSS and Javascript. I initially chose Codecademy to expose myself to the types of programming projects and to better gauge my interest and aptitude in the field. I have an aptitude for programming, have enjoyed the work thus far. I’ve found it very challenging and fulfilling. However, I’m missing the invaluable learning environment of in-person instruction, the peers to challenge and inspire each other, and have a dialogue with.

**2. If you are accepted into our program, where do you see your career in 5 years?**  
My immediate career goal is to become a hybrid designer/programmer. This will make me highly-employable, and I will continue to learn and grow as part of a team, but ultimately, this hybridization of skills will make me a uniquely capable leader. I want to establish and lead a business that excels at creating work that is equally beautiful as it is effective, a business that is known for synthesizing form and function. The characteristics that will make me a talented unicorn are the same qualities that will make me a successful business owner. I am detail-oriented, organized, creative and innovative. I’m adept at critical thinking and problem solving. These are traits that will allow me to master both design and programming, but are also qualities that make me well-suited to run a business. 

**3. After reading Ada's Vision, Mission and Inclusivity Statement, how will you contribute to Ada's vision for an inclusive and diverse community?**  
In addition to being a graphic designer, I am also a mountain biker. I race in the pro women’s category and as a de-facto leader of the mountain bike race community, I’m always looking to build an inclusive, positive and diverse community of riders. As a role-model, I have an opportunity to define my community, how we interact with each other and others, our expectations, goals, and even boundaries. I am comfortable with examining our perception of boundaries and empowering a group of women to redefine their personal limits. I am well-versed in incorporating positivity into a learning environment, supporting my peers in a way that is uplifting and encouraging, and enabling people from different backgrounds, and with different skill sets to come together and create a community. 
I believe strongly that I can have the biggest impact at a local level. I would like to participate in local groups like Girl Develop It, to work with young women at either the collegiate or high school level to support their interests in technology and encourage their pursuit of a career in tech through programs like Ignite. I would love to apply what I’ve learned in my mountain bike community to building a local community of women in technology.

**4. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you learned a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?**  
For the past few months, I’ve been trying to learn to code with Codecademy. It has been a rewarding experience, but for every success, I make at least 10 mistakes. Errors are inevitable, but as frustrating as they can be, making mistakes while learning to code has taught me some invaluable lessons.  
Time and time again, I find myself stuck, unable to determine my mistake, and unable to move on with a project. I try everything and anything, but the one resource I am always reluctant to use, is the ‘Get Help’ button. I’m proud, and fear that admitting to an expert that I can’t fix my mistake without help makes me weak. My mistake is not mistyping a piece of code, my mistake is thinking that asking for help shows weakness.  
Coding has helped me learn that asking for help doesn’t show weakness, but the opposite. Knowing when we need help and asking for it shows confidence but more importantly a willingness to learn and an open mind. The next time I find myself stuck, I will let go of my preconceived notions of what I should know or be able to do, and be open to learning without judgement. 
